Hi guys, and welcome back.
In this short video, we're going to be adding
shortcuts to our menus.
Let's begin by going into the add-commands down here
and add an accelerator.
This is some text that will be shown beside the menu bar
as if it were a shortcut.
So we will say, Ctrl + N, for new.
The accelerator for open is Ctrl + O.
And the accelerator for save is Ctrl + S.
Now a couple of things is that in Mac,
this should be command instead of control
but, that's a slightly more complicated problem
to make it differ between platforms.
So for now, we're gonna stick to control only.
Now if we run this app,
you will see that something a little bit weird happens.
When we press Ctrl + S, the menu lights up.
As if to tell us,
hey you're using a shortcut for something here.
But it doesn't actually do anything
unless you click the menu and then press Ctrl + S.
This may not happen in other platforms,
but in Mac, this is how the accelerator behaves.
So what you wanna make sure is that you have
shortcuts also set for when you don't have the menu clicked.
And the way to do that, is anywhere really down here,
you can say root.bind, and now we're going to bind
some sequence of key-presses to the root,
which is our main ticket into window.
And what that means is that,
as long as that window is the one that's selected,
the shortcuts will take effect.
So the first one is going to be Control-n.
And it's really important to surround your shortcut
with these crocodile clips
and to spell the modifier keys correctly.
So control has a capital C,
the dash means that this is an extra key-press
that you have to type,
N which is a lowercase N.
So again Control-n is what we're
going to be typing for the shortcut.
And then we are going to do lambda event is create file.
Now, important that we do lambda event and then pass in,
the create file executing.
That's because whenever you bind a shortcut,
the second argument to bind, is a function
that must have the signature of you know,
something like this def event function,
which takes an event and then does things.
That is because you could use the event
that has been generated inside the function.
In this case, we don't want to use the event.
So, what we do is we create a lambda function
that takes in the event as an argument
and then doesn't use it.
And all it does is, it calls the create file, function.
Remember that here we aren't defining a lambda function,
we are not executing the create file function.
Executing this function only happens
when the lambda function itself gets executed,
which will only happen when Control-n is pressed, okay?
Next up, we're gonna do root.bind
and now we're gonna do Ctrl + O,
and once again lambda event, open file,
and finally, root.bind, Ctrl + S.
Make sure to include your crocodile clips by the way,
and lambda event, save file.
Alright, now we can run this app here
and pressing Ctrl + S
does indeed execute this bound sequence.
This is how you can add shortcuts to a particular component,
in this case we're adding them
to the root of our application, the main window.
And how you can use accelerators in your menus.
Remember that depending on which widget is selected
at the time that you press these keys,
you can execute different functions.
In this case, we are binding Control-n to the root,
which means that it will always run,
no matter which element we've got selected.
But if you were to bind Control-n,
say to the text field, this text area here,
then the shortcut would only run if you have the
text area selected, which may not happen at all times.
So, this is how you can add shortcuts to different
parts of your application if you want.
Thanks for joining me in this video,
I hope you've learned something,
and I'll see you in the next one.